OK.
Didn't wanna get into a discussion about dependency injection without first talking about the SOLID
principles of outrage or hand programming not dependency injection is a very important concept but the
sell it o heap principles really dovetails with it very nicely and both of these are tools to help you
write better code.
When I first started spring framework Google when the first things I documented was Java examples around
solid principles of object oriented programming.
Now these principles do lead you to much better code and you're going to see as I go through this course
I will harp on especially single responsibility principle.
That's the first one in the US of solid.
We will get into that in depth.
But as one of the ones I see Junior level developers violating probably the most and I'll give you some
live examples of my experiences and legacy code bases and why these are bad and why you want to be utilizing
them in your software development.
And as we get into the Dependency Injection keep these in the back in your mind because you'll start
to see how all this dovetails together and will lead you to producing better code.
Further down the road using the spring framework.
All right.
In this presentation we are going to talk about the solid principles of object oriented programming.
Now these principles go back to around March of 1995 when Robert also known as Uncle Bob Martin started
writing about it.
He started off in writing in several software journals and ultimately these principles got worked into.
Very popular book called agile software development principles patterns and practices and initially
he did not call them solid principles.
MICHAEL feathers is actually a credited with coming up with a solid acronym for these.
Now why do you want to use these solid principles of object oriented programming.
Oh he is a very very powerful concept.
It's a great paradigm when it comes to writing software but it is not the magic path to high quality
software.
Overall these five principles will focus on dependency management and Uncle Bob points out that poor
dependency management is often the path to code that is brittle fragile and very hard to change.
Now on the other hand when you have proper dependency management the quality of the code that you get
is much better and it becomes much easier to maintain.
So Bob being a thought leader in the agile space where you want quality software that's easy to maintain
and things that you can develop quickly.
Obviously this is something very important to him.
So and when you do violate these principles you do get yourself in trouble.
Quickly I've seen plenty of examples out there where you just have code that is very hard hard to maintain.
No the first one up is we have the Single Responsibility Principle and get a little graphic here.
Just because you can doesn't mean you should.
And I see a lot of legacy code that is just awful like this.
So let's take a little closer look at the Single Responsibility Principle.
It states that every class should have a single responsibility.
There should never be more than one reason for a class to change.
In general your classes should be small no more than a screen full of code is a good rule of thumb.
That's actually like one of Uncle Bob's out of a I believe as he wrote it in clean code.
Definitely avoid God classes.
And then if you had to have a big class look for ways to split it into smaller classes and this is a
principal and I see this violated frequently and legacy code bases I've seen child classes running inside
a production where you had a class and a single method in that class that was almost two thousand lines
long.
So you can imagine having a 2009 method with all the business logic and all the statements stuff like
that is absolutely impossible to test properly.
You have too many variance.
No way that you're going to get proper test coverage out of it so you don't want to be doing too much
and you'll hear me going forward in the class.
Legal responsibility is a very big one and it is frequently violated by new developers where they don't
want to be using additional classes.
They feel it's too much overhead to create another class and trust me.
Object creation in Java is very cheap relatively speaking so not something to be worried about your
code quality and your code maintain ability.
That's far more important.
So the next principle we want to look at is the open closed principle.
So that's that's kind of funny where the captain there says open chest surgery is not needed when you're
just putting on a coat.
So this is a one that can often get in trouble and easily confused.
So Uncle Bob says that your classes should be open for extension but also closer modification so you
should be able to extend the classes for behavior but you don't want to be modifying it.
So what this means is that you your class should have private variables with getters and setters and
the specification there is only when you need them.
So you shouldn't be exposing every property through a getter and setter only the ones that you need
to.
So you'll see in the code that we did like the Entity class that was a po.
So that was a very simple example where we did have just getters and setters.
But if you remember like the controller that we created we had a property and therefore a repository
and we put a constructor there.
But we didn't expose that.
Would they get her and set her another good practice to use where you have a common base classes to
make it an abstract class.
And then also specify using abstract methods which you expect to be implemented.
But then you can encapsulate the common code inside that abstract base class the next one we have to
look at what's called the substitution principle and the little caption there says that looks like a
duck quacks like a duck but needs battery.
You probably got the wrong abstraction.
And I've seen this a lot too this was founded by Barbara Lipscomb back in 1998.
So not a new idea.
So we're talking back with C++ and smalltalk.
So I'm just saying programs should be replaceable with instances of their subtypes without altering
the correctness of the program.
And a quick rule of thumb on this violations will also fail the is a test though the basic object in
a program test is is it so like Square is a rectangle however a rectangle is not a square.
So if you're going to be doing calculations like a circle is a shape but a shape it's not a circle.
So if you're doing calculations on this obviously some of those methods would have to change that.
Their logic and you would get different results because you're failing that is a test.
So it's important that as you extend out your classes you're you're not introducing different behavior
Next up is interface segregation principle.
A LITTLE JOKE THERE YOU WANT ME TO PLUG THIS IN WHERE so interface segregation principle says makes
fine grained interfaces that are client specific using many client specific interfaces better than one
general purpose interface.
You want to keep your components focused and minimize the dependencies between them.
And one thing that you want look at this is how it relates to the Single Responsibility Principle.
So I got and I avoid.
God interfaces.
So sometimes people will try to make the interfaces just too generic and they'll start overloading methods
or just really making the API overly complex when ideally there should be more than one interface there.
So this is saying make them more specific to your use case and avoid those big general purpose ones
because once you start doing that it becomes a very slippery slope.
Next up is dependency inversion principle and a caption there is why would you solar a lamp directly
to the wall rather than using a plug.
So this is an important one as well.
And it takes you a little bit to fully grasp what's going on here.
So the dependency inversion principle says abstractions should not depend upon the details and the details
should depend upon the abstractions.
So this is trying to make a distinction between the higher level and lower level objects and they're
going to depend on the same abstract interaction so the mission share dependency.
So this about keeping them independent but having a clearly defined API between them.
And this is easy to easily confused with dependency injection.
And that is actually how one object will get a reference to another object.
So it's not how they're composed.
So the very important distinction there.
Now in summary the solid principles of O P will lead you to better quality code.
Your code will become more testable and it's going to be easier to maintain and if he knows the key
things are these slides and these principles is to avoid tight coupling in your code so avoid these
big massive classes of these overly complex God classes and God interfaces and keep things very concise
and targeted and use the tools of 0 for you yourself to produce better quality code.